Dart Variable and Type 
The code effectively showcases Dart's flexible and safe approach to variables and types.

Type Inference (var)
Dart is an optionally typed language, meaning you don't always need to explicitly write the type.

Code: var name = 'Bob';

Analysis: The var keyword is used, but Dart's Type Inference is at work. Because the initial value is a String literal ('Bob'), Dart automatically infers the variable name to be of type String. After this line, name can only hold String values. The same applies to year (inferred as int) and antennaDiameter (inferred as double). This promotes clean code while maintaining type safety.

Explicit Type Annotation
This shows the standard, explicit way to declare a variable in a statically typed language.

Code: String greeting = 'Hello';

Analysis: This is the traditional way to declare a variable. It clearly states the type (String, int, double) before the variable name. While optional when an initial value is provided (as seen with var), explicit types are often preferred for API signatures (function parameters and return values) to enhance documentation and clarity.

Mutability and Reassignment
Dart variables are mutable by default, meaning their values can be changed after they are initialized.

Code: name = 'Alice'; year = 2025;

Analysis: This confirms that variables are mutable. Since name was inferred as a String and year as an int, the reassignment is perfectly valid because the new values are of the correct, inferred type. If you tried name = 42;, the Dart compiler would flag a type error.

The Object Type
The Object type is the root of the entire Dart type system.

Code: Object dynamicValue = 'Can be anything'; dynamicValue = 42;

Analysis: Using the Object type allows the variable to hold any object type, including a String and then an Integer, as demonstrated. While flexible, using Object sacrifices some compile-time type safety compared to using a specific type or var, and it often requires casting or type checks when accessing specific properties or methods.

Null Safety (?)
This is a key modern feature of Dart and Flutter, designed to eliminate a common class of runtime errors.

Code: int? nullableNumber;

Analysis: By default, variables in Dart are non-nullable. The ? (question mark) suffix is used to explicitly declare a nullable type. An uninitialized nullable variable defaults to null. This demonstrates Dart's Sound Null Safety, which ensures that non-nullable variables cannot hold null, making your app more robust.

This code sample is a fantastic primer on how Dart handles data, balancing the expressiveness of dynamic languages (var) with the security of static typing (String, int, double, and ?).