Let's explain this x86-64 assembly code line by line.

.data Section
The .data section is where you store initialized data. Think of it as the program's static memory for variables and constants.

my_string db 'Data goes here', 0: This defines a variable named my_string. The db directive stands for "define byte" and allocates a sequence of bytes in memory. The string 'Data goes here' is followed by a null terminator (0), which is a common way to mark the end of a string in C-style programming.

my_number dq 42: This defines a variable named my_number. The dq directive stands for "define quad-word" and allocates 8 bytes (64 bits) of memory. The value 42 is stored here.

my_array db 1, 2, 3, 4, 5: This defines a byte array named my_array. The db directive allocates a sequence of bytes, in this case, the five numbers 1 through 5.

.text Section
The .text section is where the executable code is located. The processor reads and executes instructions from this section.

global _start: This makes the _start label visible to the linker, marking it as the program's entry point. When the operating system runs the program, it starts execution at this label.

_start Label
This is where the program's execution begins.

mov rax, [my_number]: This is the first instruction. It moves the value stored at the memory address my_number into the rax register. Because my_number is a quad-word (8 bytes), the entire 64-bit value 42 is loaded into rax. The square brackets [] are crucial; they indicate a dereference, meaning "get the value at this memory address," not the address itself.

mov al, [my_array]: This instruction moves the value at the memory address of my_array into the al register. The al register is the lowest 8 bits of the rax register. The db directive for my_array means it's a byte array, so only the first byte (the value 1) is moved into al. This overwrites the lowest byte of rax, which previously held the value 42.

mov rax, 60: This instruction loads the value 60 into the rax register. This value represents the sys_exit system call on Linux. This effectively erases the previous value in rax and prepares the program to exit.

mov rdi, 0: This loads the value 0 into the rdi register. The rdi register holds the first argument for a system call. In this case, 0 is the exit code, signifying that the program exited successfully.

syscall: This instruction tells the operating system to execute the system call specified by the value in rax (in this case, sys_exit). The program terminates with an exit code of 0.