This code is an x86-64 assembly program for Linux that prints "Hello, World!" to the console and then exits.
Let's break it down line by line.

.data Section
The .data section is where initialized data is stored. This is typically for variables or constants that have a value at the start of the program.

hello db 'Hello, World!', 0xA, 0: This line defines a string variable named hello.

db stands for define byte. It allocates a sequence of bytes.

'Hello, World!' is the literal string.

0xA is the ASCII code for a newline character (\n), which moves the cursor to the next line.

0 is a null terminator, often used to signify the end of a string, though not strictly necessary for this specific syscall.

hello_len equ $ - hello - 1: This line defines a constant for the length of the hello string.

equ stands for equate, which is used to define a constant.

$ represents the current address of the instruction or data.

The expression $ - hello calculates the difference between the current address (the end of the string) and the start of the hello variable, giving its total length in bytes.

- 1 is used to exclude the null terminator (0) from the length, as the write syscall only needs the length of the string to be printed.

.text Section
The .text section is where the program's executable code (instructions) is located.

global _start: This line makes the _start label globally accessible, which is crucial for the linker. The linker needs to know where the program's execution should begin, and by convention, on Linux, this is the _start label.

_start Label
This is the entry point of the program. Execution begins here.

mov rax, 1: This instruction loads the value 1 into the rax register. In Linux, the rax register is used to specify which system call (syscall) to perform. The value 1 corresponds to the sys_write syscall, which is used to write data to a file descriptor.

mov rdi, 1: This instruction loads the value 1 into the rdi register. The rdi register is the first argument to the syscall. The value 1 represents the standard output file descriptor (stdout), which is typically the console.

mov rsi, hello: This instruction loads the address of the hello string into the rsi register. The rsi register is the second argument to the sys_write syscall, which is a pointer to the data to be written.

mov rdx, hello_len: This instruction loads the value of the hello_len constant into the rdx register. The rdx register is the third argument to the sys_write syscall, which specifies the number of bytes to write.

syscall: This instruction triggers the system call. The operating system takes control, reads the syscall number from rax and the arguments from rdi, rsi, and rdx, and executes the sys_write function, which writes "Hello, World!" to the console.

Program Exit
mov rax, 60: This instruction loads the value 60 into the rax register. The value 60 corresponds to the sys_exit syscall, which terminates the program.

mov rdi, 0: This instruction loads the value 0 into the rdi register. This is the first argument to the sys_exit syscall. The value 0 is the exit code, indicating that the program terminated successfully.

syscall: This instruction triggers the system call to exit the program. The operating system handles the cleanup and terminates the process.